Cscope (#6003)
Codecademy/docs: content/c/concepts/scope/scope.md

---
Title: C Scope
Description: 'scope defines the region of a program where a variable can be accessed.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'C'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'variables'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

[In C, **Scopes** defines the region of a program where a variable can be accessed. Variables in C are categorized based on their scope into local and global. Let's explore each:]

## Local Scope Example

A variable declared inside a function is said to have local scope. It can only be accessed and used within that function.

> ```codebyte/js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```codebyte/js
```
Example for `c` code should be included inside the `c` code blocks.

---
Title: Scope
Description: 'Scope defines the region in a program where a variable can be accessed.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Developer Tools'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Control Flow'
  - 'Memory'
  - 'Programming'
  - 'Variables'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

In C, **scope** defines the region of a program where a variable can be accessed. Variables in C are categorized into local and global scopes based on their accessibility.

## Local Scope 

> A variable declared inside a function is said to have local scope. It can only be accessed and used within that function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Variables declared inside a function or block have local scope, meaning they are accessible only within that function or block.
```

> Here’s the syntax for local scope in `C`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ## Syntax

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Syntax for local scope
```

```pseudo
return_type function_name() {
    // Variable with local scope
    data_type variable_name = value;

    // Code that uses the variable
    ...
}
```
- `data_type`: Represents the type of the variable.
- `variable_name`: Name of the variable used in the code.
- `value`: Value assigned to the variable.

## Global Scope

Variables declared outside of any function have global scope and can be accessed and modified from any function within the program.

> Here’s the syntax for global scope in `C`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Syntax

```pseudo

data_type variable_name = value;
// Global variable (declared outside any function)
return_type function_name() {
    // Code that can access the global variable
} 
```

> Here's a concise code snippet demonstrating both local and global scope in `C`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Example

> 

Reviewer 2: A one-two line explanation of the example code below can be added here

```c
#include <stdio.h>
// Global variable
int globalVar = 100;
void myFunction() {
    // Local variable
    int localVar = 10;

    // Accessing both local and global variables
    printf("Local variable inside myFunction: %d\n", localVar);
    printf("Global variable inside myFunction: %d\n", globalVar);
}
int main() {
    // Accessing the global variable
    printf("Global variable inside main: %d\n", globalVar);
    
    // Calling the function which accesses both local and global variables
    myFunction();
    
    return 0;
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: Please add the output below the example wrapped in the ```shell``` block, example:

The output of the above code is:

```shell
Global variable inside main: 100
Local variable inside myFunction: 10
Global variable inside myFunction: 100
```
